Marielle Hsu | contact@mariellehsu.com

Portfolio : mariellehsu.com
LinkedIn : linkedin.com/in/mariellehsu
 
I create efficient, intuitive solutions by considering the whole environment of a product - from the immediate details of a user's interaction with it; to design and implementation; to company, client, and user goals. My varied background that enables me to address both detail work and systems thinking, make strategic commitments, and to plan a digital ecosystem that addresses a client's core needs.


DESIGN

University of Warwick School of Law   |   March 2016 - June 2016
Create marketing templates for desktop publishing for use both in print and online that are consistent with new University branding guidelines. Apply those templates to create posters for print, online, and display on large screens around campus. Ensure that the new website adhered to User Experience best practices by evaluating current interactions, structure, layout, colours, etc. and making necessary changes.

Loom Grown   |   October 2015 - December 2015
Troubleshoot issues with Trotec300 laser cutting paths and part design files. Assist with path planning and design optimization to minimize waste material. User Experience testing of the accompanying application.

San Francisco Public Utilities Commission   |   March 2015 - July 2015
User Experience research and design for an internal timekeeping module integrated with current, new task management software. Edit the specifications and requirements document, sketch thumbnails for process flow, map and understand current systems, market research into other timekeeping software, create Balsamiq wireframes for the new module, present clickable prototype to stakeholders, and incorporate comments and research from all levels.

BlacksmitHER   |   March 2015 – September 2015
Restructure podcast summaries before they are posted to the website, to ensure consistency and accuracy.

San Francisco Department of Public Works   |   October 2014 - May 2015
Design and build a web-based user interface for a historical cost database. Write and edit CSS and HTML, conduct exploratory user interviews, and present and defend design ideas to higher-level administrators.

i am the cavalry   |   August 2014 - December 2014
Design outreach flyers targeted to automotive industry professionals, security researchers, and the general public. Edit public blog posts and graphics for the website.

General Assemb.ly   |   June 2014 - August 2014
Implement user research tactics to gain a deeper understanding of what users need and want. Identify the best ways to organize information on a given site or app. Understand the importance of Information Architecture. Design a digital product that behaves intuitively, and brings joy and function to users. Utilize visual design in order to make beautiful digital products. Explain process through the use of sketches, wireframes, and presentations. Collaborate with design teams to see a project from start to finish.

Other Machine Co.   |   December 2013 - March 2014
Design and implement packaging, creative kit contents, and customer outreach. Research and report on market trends in the "maker" space across the globe, as well as within small-scale manufacturing.

Xantrion   |   January 2009 - March 2009
Generating, formatting, analysing, and delivering monthly monitoring reports to customers.


PROCESS OPTIMIZATION

University of Warwick School of Law
Create background policies that govern the standardization and centralization of information, reducing duplicated effort and streamlining information on the site.

FIGMENT Oakland 2015   |   March 2015 – October 2015
Internal-facing organization, communication, workflow optimization, documentation, etc. to keep the eight-person organizing committee up-to-date.

Other Machine Co.
Solely responsible for contents, flow, launch, and monitoring of the web store supporting our portable CNC milling machine. Investigate, test, order, organize, and track inventory (and create associated systems).

BluesQuake 2014   |   October 2013 – June 2014
Find, organize, reference, and maintain documents needed to plan and run a weekend workshop with attendees from all across the US. Ensure that information from meetings is recorded and shared.

Crater House   |   November 2012 - December 2012
Set up a formal QA process. File bug reports, prioritize tasks, and report on time required for QA.


DOCUMENTATION

University of Warwick School of Law
Compile written instructions, documentation, and advice for staff and students on all systems, software, and processes. Document all internal IT processes to ensure consistent application of policies during administrative and academic transitions. Set up, manage, maintain, and keep an updated inventory of all departmental equipment along with all other hardware/software.

FIGMENT Oakland 2015
Write documentation. Explain documentation. Keep everyone on the same page by providing templates.

Sundown Blues Dance Society   |   July 2014 – December 2015
Create documentation of internal processes to facilitate communication between organization volunteers, as well as accountability to community members. Ensure smooth operation of two weekly event venues.

Pioneers of the Inevitable   |   April 2009 - July 2012
Rebuild, update, and manage templates for bug reports to ensure that all information is collected up front to reduce response time and churn. Update and maintain a basic how-to guide for the community.

Xantrion
Responsible for obtaining, formatting and delivering quotes for all hardware and software requested by clients. Assist Network Engineers with writing and formatting Standard Operating Procedure documents.


MANAGEMENT

University of Warwick School of Law
Advise and support staff on software / hardware purchases for the School, and in the maintenance of web pages, development of web content, and recording and editing video. Induct new and existing members of staff both academic and administrative in the use of IT within the School and related policies.

The Crucible Fire Safety   |   November 2008 – December 2015
Responsible for checking in with performers and artists before they light up, assisting with their safety procedures, communication any concerns, and giving a go/no-go before running. Maintain a safety perimeter around active fire. Be on hand to address questions from attendees, performers, or other staff. Attend and assist with yearly Fire Safety training to keep current on procedures.

Girls Science Institute   |   May 2014 & May 2015
Assist with project set-up in the morning, registration and check-in, maintaining order throughout the day, answer questions and guide exploration, and generally be present as a female engineer role model.

Sundown Blues Dance Society
Individually responsible for restructuring community and cultural expectations within two weekly venues. Also being present as a Host several nights a month to provide on-site support, manage a team of volunteers, and ensure that new guidelines and processes fit the environment.

FIGMENT Oakland 2015
Assist with on-boarding and coordinating artists for and during the event, and supporting the other Curation volunteers. Herd cats. Help with everything. Serve as day-of contact for administrative decisions.

BluesQuake 2014
Create agenda, solicit further items, keep meetings on track, ensure that we stick to the event timeline, and generally herd cats at the 17-person organizer meetings.

Pioneers of the Inevitable
Develop a high-level test plan for new products and features. Coordinate testing with both local and remote QA groups. Assist with community engagement on multiple platforms while prioritizing bug reports.


EDUCATION 

2014	 General Assembly, UXDi
2007	 UC Berkeley, Summer Mandarin Chinese 
2006	 University of St Andrews, Semester abroad
2007	 Bryn Mawr College, BA in Physics


INTERESTS

Reading sci-fi, fantasy, historical fiction, non-fiction, cultural history, linguistic analysis, science, poetry, etc. Climbing trees. Building big art. Making small art. Fixing mechanical problems. Dancing solo modern and partnered blues. Sailing dinghies and keelboats. Music. Art. Scotch. Backpacking. Travel. Fire safety.


REFERENCES available upon request.